---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-01-30
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - Learning
  - WOD
---
<p>These are the trials and tribulations of me completing the first three WODs.</p>
<p>BrowserHistory1 took the longest to complete and took up most of my night. I made it few the first few instructions easy the first few times but always got hung up on accessing my site on my browser. After three tries, I realized that I did not specify the file path the browser needed to display the information. I made it through step 4 and 5 just fine but finally got super stuck on step 6 where we needed to create a table of contents. This is where opneded up the hint video the first time and received the necessary coding. I restarted again after this. After formatting my images, it took longer than the DNF time for me to complete. After watching the hint video in its entirety, I was able to complete the WOD in a acceptable amount of time that I was satisfied with. Total time: 4.5 hours.</p>
<p>BrowserHistory2 was a lot easier from the start and I was able to complete the style.css sheet without major issue. I watched the hint video after the first try to ensure everything was completed and only had two errors in the background color command and finding the correct way to get the right font. It took four tries to achieve the Rx time I desired.</p>
<p>BrowserHistory3 was a little more difficult to get right than BrowserHistory2 and I'm not entirely sure my final product was 100% correct. But it looked similar enough to the point where I called it a win at the end of attempt 3. The first attempt, admittedly, I was a little lost on what to do and gave up to watch the hint video. The video was very helpful was it worked on the second try. A third try was attempted and successful in reaching the desired Rx time.</p>
<p>It was admittedly difficult not to be able to watch the hint video before and while attempting the WOD. Even after the hint video, I still struggled to achieve a nice time in the first WOD. I think this experience told me that I have a long way to go in improving my programming skills and hopeful that this class will help me continue to improve them!</p>
