---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3: Preparing for WODs Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-30
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - Learning
  - WOD
---
<p>The last WOD that we completed was Invoice1. This WOD involved setting up a page where it did some basic calculations in order to complete an invoice. It also involved displaying the numbers in a visually comprehensible manner.</p>
<p>Link to WOD Discussed: https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-invoice1.html"
<p>This WOD was definitely one of the easier ones to complete. I think it was more tedious as a result as it was a bunch of copy-pasting and changing small things with each line item afterwards. I think if anything the thing I needed to pay the most attention to was ensuring that the table worked and looked satisfactory. The instructions however for the most part were very clear in what they needed done and provided the useful hints along the way. The table did hold me up on the first run-through so as a result the WOD took two tries to achieve my desired time.</p>
<p>I'll be honest, I didn't do all that much to prepare for this WOD. As with the other WODs up to this point, I try not to look at the other material as I find myself either more confused or overwhelmed rather than helpful. As a result, this WOD is a little different from the BrowserHistory ones that we completed earlier this semester so I think mentally I felt it harder to look back at those for reference. We were compiling an Invoice and Table rather than building a website interface. Like I said earlier, this WOD required a lot more copy-pasting than other WODs.</p>
<p>Like I said, I don't think I could have prepared anymore or less that would have done anything meaningful. I definitely am beginning to see myself as a rather slow coder so I am definitely satisfied if I have achieved the Average time that has been set. I think the only way to improve that is to continue learning and coding through this class. Watching the videos however continues to prove to be an invaluable resource to me at times and often depend on them to complete certain aspects of the WODs. I hope to become more independent as time goes on.</p>
