---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-12-15
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - Learning
---

<p>Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details</p>

<p>Assignment 2's main highlights are its implementation of the login and resgistration pages. This is along with the implementation of the code that would be necessary to process the information that is inputted by the user and then will be stored permanently on file for future use.</p>

<p>What did you learn from this assignment?</p>

<p>This assignment was easier to implement a login and registration page as there was a base code that was already established from the last assignment so I believe there was a little less stress involved this time. Overall, this assignment was still tricky in the amount of time spent working on the code and finding the right code to use. I found it rather interesting to learn how simple it can be fore a website and/or company to collect user data in the form of a user registration and am interested in how that data will be used and stored safely.</p>

<p>Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).</p>

<p>I worked alone on this project. Therefore, I did 100% of the work that is turned in.</p>

<p>How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?</p>

<p>Most of the help I got was through online and ChatGPT. This included RTFMing many pages for help and also sending out for help on an online forum. This was the case for most of the code but was especially helpful in implementing the password credentials.</p>

<p>How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?</p>

<p>Like i mentioned earlier, this assignment was building on the base of Assignment 1 and therefore was not starting from scratch. I suppose there was a small comfort there?</p>

<p>Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging</p>

<p>I think 80-90% of my time was spent online looking at what to do and scratching my head. This means the other 10% or so was actually writing/copying code online.</p>

<p>Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?</p>

<p>I am still severely behind schedule in terms of this assignment along with Assignment 3. My slow pace is hampering myself along with the instructors for which I apologize. Overall, I know I'm not completing all of the requirements but I trying to do my best.</p>

<p>If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?</p>

<p>I wish I knew where to look and who to trust more easily online. There isn't a one stop shop that can answer all of the questions so that is a little frustrating. I would just tell myself to not let the fatigue, exhaustion, and overall demoralization get to me so much.</p>
